Sibongile Pradhan
Mediation • Coaching • Deep Listening • Facilitation • Training • Grief Tending

Hello.
I work with individuals, couples, families, colleagues, neighbours, community groups and organisational teams - to strengthen communication, explore challenges, develop understanding, navigate conflict, hold difficult conversations and express grief. 
I believe that when people experience being heard and understood, new possibilities emerge. My work is grounded in the principles of Nonviolent Communication (NVC). To it all I bring warmth, curiosity and the intention to help people reconnect with themselves and one another. 
I’m based in Edinburgh yet happy to travel.


Scroll down for the five elements of my work.


Nonviolent Communication (NVC) Coaching and Training 

Coaching. If you would like to deepen your NVC practice, I offer coaching based on real situations in your life (or imagined examples if you prefer). I will support you to connect with the feelings and needs beneath the words and actions of yourself and other people. Together we’ll uncover what is really important to you in a situation, and find ways to express it authentically and with care for both yourself and the other. This is the essence of nonviolent communication (NVC) and I will coach you more or less explicitly depending on your preference and learning style.
Training. I offer training in the fundamentals of nonviolent communication (NVC) for individuals, couples, families and teams/groups, over a timeframe that suits you. Twice a year I co-teach the NVC Foundation Training in central Scotland with a colleague.

“Working with Sibongile has been genuinely transformative. With warmth and deep empathy, she guides me to reconnect with past versions of myself, understand long-held triggers, and move through blocks that once felt stuck, especially in relationships. Each session leaves me with clarity, compassion, and a powerful shift.”  Alicia

“Sibongile gracefully offered excellent, relatable NVC lessons and live practice to our wiggly, active family in the comfort of our living room. Our two youngest children (11 and 14), who are most often in conflict, eagerly awaited each session. Sibongile is a great role model for healthy communication and the NVC practice. My new NVC outlook supports me to go beyond reacting to reflecting, and to look for feelings and needs during times of conflict. Our whole family is grateful for our time with her!”  Laura 

Button: Book a free 50m session to sample coaching or to discuss your training needs


Deep Listening akin to Counselling
I offer sessions to which you can bring your thoughts, feelings, fears and desires, where everything is welcome without judgment. I will support you to connect with your emotions, to explore what is going on for you, and connect with what deeply matters. The sessions are led by you and held by me.

I have eight years of counselling experience, and training in counselling skills. While I am not a certified counsellor or therapist, many clients experience working with me as therapeutic. My approach is intuitive, relational, and grounded in the principles of nonviolent communication.
"Over the years, Sibongile has offered me a warm and non-judgemental space where I felt supported and heard, as well as encouraged and inspired. She has helped me disentangle situations of conflict, and more recently, accompanied me during a long journey back to health. Working with Sibongile has enabled me to develop my NVC skills as well as develop as a person."   Fl
“I have some change coming up and struggle with decision making which I think has been caused by trauma and I have been working on this during the session with good results. I’ve been able to do some really interesting work on under-standing parts of myself, linked to younger ages, with empathy. The emphasis on body and feelings has been very use-ful.” Ph

“Sibongile has been really good at holding the space for me, she has a calming energy.  She is good at reading me and giving me a nudge – opening things up and helping me to get what I need from my-self. She has encouraged me to be curious and explore how I feel in a very non-judgemental way.  I’ve been glad to learn ways to cope with the symptoms of trauma that is not medicine based – just very practical. It’s been amazing, Sibongile is so good at adapting to my needs.”  Ka

Button: Book an initial free 50m session (no strings)

Mediation
I offer mediation in situations where there are existing relationships to be restored - between colleagues, friends, partners, neighbours, family members, students or community group members - where a rift has occurred and all parties are keen to repair it, or at least willing to give it a go.
Usually working alongside a mediation colleague, I hold space for conflict to be brought into the open, where each person can be heard for what matters to them, understand what’s going on for the other, and explore options for moving forward in a way that works well-enough for everyone.
Our approach has nonviolent communication at its heart, is accredited through Scottish Mediation and certified through the University of St Andrews Mediation Service.  (see Sands Mediation)
Family: “Thank you, Sibongile, for your beautiful facilitation. We came away from our session very happy; feeling a sense of lightness and new possibility. There is definitely more to unpack, including the 'strategies', but Saturday was, in itself, very helpful to create better dialogue between us. Your active presence and facili-tation very effectively put us at ease, encouraged us to express ourselves and listen to each other deeply, and moved us forward gently yet deliberately.”   Marie-Amélie

Colleagues?

Button: Book a free 50m meeting to talk about what you're looking for

Group Facilitation
I support organisations, teams and groups to work together more effectively, by combining my experience of facilitating participatory community development and nonviolent communication.
This could be the facilitation of team away-days, or their development of vision and purpose; it could be supporting difficult conversations, facilitating decision-making, navigating a transition, or assisting teams develop healthier ways of working with conflict. I help organisations create conflict management strategies, so that clear agreements and systems are in place before tensions escalate into rifts.
“Sibongile’s positive energy is contagious. She kept us all engaged for 2 days, created space for airing diverging views and re-energised our collective sense of purpose by helping each of us come up with practical changes within our reach. The days would have been so different without her facilitation – relief and gratitude for what she achieved and how she went about it.”  IIED NRG

[Sibongile led us skilfully through a process of exploring our individual and organisational attitudes to conflict, and then together developing and refining our own flow diagram of how we want to respond when we find ourselves in conflict. I’m optimistic we might be able to make it work. ??]

Button: Book a free 50m meeting to discuss what you seek

Grief Tending
Grief is a natural response to loss, change or things not turning out as we expected. I can enable you to be more fully in touch with grief that you carry, whether it is recent or long-held, personal or collective.
Your grief may appear as sorrow, pain, anger or other feelings. It may arise from the loss of a loved one, a relationship, a community, a place, a way of life, or from an unrealised hope, or concerns about the wider world. What ever form it takes, we will together welcome and encourage the expression of your grief.
If you long for a space in which to share grief in the companionship of others, I can help you create and facilitate community grief circles.
“I have a new capacity to say my words out loud, which come from my whole truth, and they allow me to cry. This is what our work has enabled in me. I cried today the mourning that's been held in for so long. It flows out when we have grief circles or when I'm saying these prayerful words. And in that time I'm free from my shame about crying. I'm grateful to you Sibongile for this gift to me. When I've cried, said these prayerful words, I'm closer to my realness.”  Pa

“I want to express my deep gratitude for the grief tending circles you facilitated last year. It was such an important experience for me, a safe and welcoming space where I could share my emotions and pain. I have deep fond memories of that evening around the fire that will always stay with me.”   Lu

Button: Book a free 50 min session



Button: Contact Sibongile
